Okay.
You already know how to protect your site and all of what you have learned in this course should be
applied to your WordPress theme or plugin as well.
Now we will take a look at the stuff specific to WordPress.
We will see how we can improve the security during installation, doing proper setup, writing a theme
or plugin, writing your custom code or one managing users.
Also, you already know how much I oppose from installing third party components without a very good
reason.
But in this chapter I will once again make an exception and show you a wonderful WordPress security
plugin that earned my trust.
All-In-One WordPress Security and Firewall.
These guys really do a fantastic job and it's a tool which makes securing the site as simple as turning
the features on or off.
But to be fair with you, I will first show you what configuration changes can be done manually without
using any plugins.
Much of the following will be possible with the mentioned plugin, but I think it's useful to know how
this stuff works and then decide if you want a plugin to manage it or not.
Let's first see what security improvements we can make already during installation.
On the first screen.
After restarting the installation wizard, you are prompted to enter database credentials.
Of course, when you set up your database, you should use and nontrivial database, name, username
and the strong password.
But that's the general knowledge you already have.
What's important here is to set the custom table prefix.
The default is WP underscore and any attacker trying to inject some ESC with code on your site will
likely use that default prefix in any injected school code.
So change it to something random like this.
Then your tables will be named x40 etc. underscore posts instead of the default wp underscore posts.
It's way, way easier to do it during the installation.
But if you already have your site alive, it still can be done manually or with the plug in.
To do it manually, you would have to first make a backup of your offsite files and database.
Of course, if you are working on the life site, it's recommended to turn on the maintenance mode as
it will take a couple of minutes to finish.
Then start with renaming WordPress tables in your database.
Replacing the WP underscore default prefix with your own.
You can run a query to rename all of them at once.
Don't forget custom tables created and used by plugins.
Then you need to look for entries with WP underscore prefix into tables options and use their meta.
Run this query to find entry starting with WP underscore in the options table.
They're look for options.
Which names start with WP underscore the one that you definitely should have is WP user roles change
its name and potentially other options names so that they match your prefix.
Unfortunately, this needs quite a lot of care because for example, the WP force deactivated plug ins
and WP page for privacy policy options shouldn't be touched.
They needed the WP underscore prefix, not the database prefix.
Now run this query to find entry starting with WP underscore in the user meetup table and again change
all found meta keys to mature database prefix.
Finally you need to change the table prefix variable in WP config file to match the prefix you just
set up.
It's much easier to do that with the All-In-One WordPress Security and Firewall plugin.
Make a backup of your site and database of course, and then navigate to WordPress security database
security and follow the instructions.
You can either let the plug in generate a random prefix for you, or you can specify your own.
On the next screen of the installation wizard, you're asked to provide the username for the admins
account.
Choose something other than admin administrator or your site domain name.
These will likely be tried out when someone wants to brute.
Force your log in panel.
Also.
She was a strong bastard, but the one that you will be able to remember.
WordPress general is the password for you, but there is no chance you will be able to remember the
generated one.
Make it reasonably long with lowercase and uppercase letters, digits and some symbols.
On existing sites to change your username.
You can follow a couple of months.
For example, change it directly in the database in the user stable.
You might need to log out and log in again to your admin panel.
Also you can create a new user with admin role and then delete the one with admin username.
Or if you choose to install the All-In-One WordPress security plugin, go to user account section and
follow the instructions there.
Changing your password is much easier in the WordPress admin panel.
Go to users, find yourself and click edit and scroll to password management section to change your
password.
After the installation is completed, I recommend you to go to Tools Site Health and solve the highlighted
problems.
This would typically be outdated BGP version, outdated WordPress or plug in versions and used themes
and plugins or lack of HTP connection.
Try to solve as much as you can.
Dilithium synth plugins, which you don't use because even when they are deactivated in the admin panel,
any potential vulnerabilities they have can still be exploited.
WordPress comes with a couple of pre-installed themes and plugins which you can delete if you don't
use them.
And remember to keep plugins to the minimum.
Okay.
I said that too many times.
There are also two things that you shouldn't do.
First, you can disable the core auto updates for major versions, but do not try to disable security
and maintenance upgrades.
It's one of the most wonderful features that exist in WordPress and hats off to the team that they support
so many legacy versions with these upgrades.
There's completely no reason to disable it.
They are only bug fixes and security patches, not any core changes.
If something was stop working on your site after such update, it means it was utilizing a security
hole.
Second, don't try to hide that you are using WordPress.
There are certain methods that change default paths, for example, allowing you to rename WP content
folder to something else.
But in the end it would be extremely hard to make it truly and discoverable.
There are too many platform specific elements, for example, parts and files, organization which cannot
be entirely changed, or class names in common components like body tag or navigation menus.
Any user can also request any WordPress specific URL like RSS feeds are as the Windows Live writer manifest,
etc..
And even if you book them all, there are certain static files in the core that will reveal its WordPress.
We should also remove or protect certain files in the WordPress file system.
These are WP config sample BHP which you can simply remove as it is not needed after installation.
WP config BHP for which you should set six for all permissions and prevent access to it in access.
With the code we already learned earlier.
Then there's a couple of static fires that also should be blocked.
WordPress read me HTML and license files and similar files in plugins directories.
Read them it, read me and the license etc..
The ones coming from WordPress are not too dangerous themselves, but those coming from plugins or themes
often expose a little too much, especially the precise version number, which can help attackers determine
if certain exploits have a chance to work or not.
Unfortunately, some plugins let out their version numbers in more places.
For example, it may be hardcoded in JavaScript or Seus files, and for that there's nothing to be done
about this.
God forbid.
Access to any file that starts with read me.
License with S and license with C.
In your science settings in the general panel, disable the option.
Anyone can register if you don't actually expect people to register.
In the discussion settings page.
Disable comments if you don't use WordPress comment system on your site by uncheck the option.
Allow people to submit comments on new posts, but because this can be changed proposed, follow the
rest of the settings page and check the option.
Users must be registered and logged into comment which will block any potential anonymous comments and
check the option.
Comments must be manually approved, which would prevent any potential comments from being displayed
on your page before you accept it.
You might also want to disable being bugs and to track bugs.
These are methods that allow different blocks to communicate whenever one links to another.
If you are not interested in these functionalities or you find them being mostly spammy, you can disable
them completely on the same discussion panel.
Uncheck the options attempts to modify any blocks linked to from the post and allow link notifications
from other blogs.
Keeping these settings disabled will save your server from having to deal with spam requests and save
your database from having to store spammy records.
There's also a couple of useful code snippets that you should put in your themes functions P2P file.
The first one will remove the generator meta information from all sites head section, RSS or item feeds.
It's good for security because the generator information contains the precise version number of your
WordPress installation.
But this version number can also appear in other places, notably as version numbers of static resources
like scripts or styles.
To change that, you need to use style loader source and script loader source filters.
In this code, we check if the verb parameter exists in the assets URL and if yes, we remove it with
the wordpress remove query ask function.
This simple solution has one serious downside.
Browsers will cache these static files and after the WordPress update they will not know they need to
Donald's new versions from the server because the path will not change.
There will be no var parameter.
That would change to a new number.
To solve that, you need to keep the parameter but change its value to something else, which will not
let out the actual version number in the modified code.
We create a hash based on the whole, you are all pretending it with some custom string to make the
cache a little less predictable.
Then instead of removing the version parameter, replace its original value with the hash using wordpress.
Add the query function.
So now when the version number would change, the you are allowed to change as well.
And so a hash will change and we will have a different hash for each resource.
So if you update one individual plugin caches, invert parameters will change only for this particular
plugins file.
The last thing you might wants to do is prevent the user's enumeration if it's not explicitly needed.
Users enumeration is when someone types this.
It will redirect the first users author archive as you see, it makes it retrieval to find out the admins
username because the first user is usually admin.
Disabling this feature will make it more difficult, although if your admin username really is admin,
the attacker can easily find it out by typing directly your URL slash author slash admin, which is
a built in WordPress author archive.
That's why it's better to name the admin user something else than admin.
In this code, we first make sure we are not in the admin panel and then check for the existence of
other parameter in whatever type of request we use the request to label here on purpose because we want
to see if the parameter was sent with whichever method and if it exists would return an error message
and the four three forbidden status code.
All these things removing water generator, removing version numbers and preventing users enumeration.
You can set in the all in one WordPress security and firewall plugin.
However, the removal of version numbers works only for the WordPress core.
The plugins and themes version numbers are not protected by this plugin, so instead you might want
to use our code.